Lecture 0 Notes

Computer Science is computational thinking and problem solving through computers

Binary:
Binary is the universal language of computers. Consisting of 1’s and 0’s. Uses the base-2 system. Each digit is called a bit. 8 bits is a byte. 
Uses the location of the digit. 11111111 -> 256.
Common conventions use 32-bits, around 4 billion now common for 64 bits. How can a computer represent the letter ‘A’ ? Use a combination of 0’s and 1’s.  
01000001 -> 65 is ‘A’ capital B 66 and so on. 
ASCII American Standard Code for Information Interchange. 72, 73, 33 -> HI!. To change an upper case to lower case change the 32 bit to 1. 
*8 people line up and are given a digit They are gonna represent a letter by raising their hand up 1 down 0*. Unicode is super ASCII. 
Emojis are just characters. Instead of using 7 or 8 bits Unicode uses 16, 24, or 32 bits per character. The same pattern can equal different types. 
RGB is how computers display light. Some amount of red, some blue , and some green. Different amounts of red, green and blue give different colors.

Algorithms:
A step by step process to solve some problems. Software is an implementation of step by step instructions. 
Different languages will be better/easier for different uses.
*Example searching for a name in a phone book*
Going through each page one by one is slow and checking every other page is inaccurate. 
This is where you use algorithms to quickly and accurately perform a task. 
For searching through a phone book with say 1000 pages you can go to page 500 and throw away the other half that doesn’t have the name.
You keep repeating this process of cutting the search in half until you find what you're looking for. This is merge sort and is one of the few algorithms used.
Coding is solving problems not only correctly but efficiently.

Pseudo Code:
False code. Code written in a human language.

Pick up phone book
Open to middle of phone book
Look at page
If person is on page
  Call
Else if person earlier
  Open to middle of left half
  Go back to line 3
Else if person later
  Open to middle of right half
  Go back to line 3

